-----------------
EVENTS IN SETTGEN
-----------------

Introduction:
Every new infrastructure element to a settlement allows a new event to take
place there. These events can be positive or negative, and with each timestep
a roll is made to see if an event took place.
Events can have several different effects, but typically modify how a
settlement will grow or develop. Every event is also logged in a settlement's
history.

Rolling Events:

At each timestep, settgen queries each quarter in the settlement for its
infrastructure and acquires an updated list of possible events.

Event Effects:
There are eight different event effects.

- Kill citizens (KILL)
- Damage buildings (DAM)
- Slow growth and building (RIOT)
- Grow the settlement (GROW)
- Build more quickly (BLD)
- Earn gold faster (GOLD) (NEW)
- Add a new notable (HERO)
- Add a new item (ITEM)

KILL effect:
When an event has a KILL effect, it has a risk of killing some of the
settlement's population, based on the intensity of the effect. There are two
levels of the KILL effect, KILL_1 and KILL_2.
KILL_1: kill a small portion of the population of the quarter; this is a set
number as opposed to a percentage.
KILL_2: kill a percentage of the population of the quarter; if a high enough
roll is obtained, subsequent rolls must be made in the other quarters.

DAM effect:
When an event has a DAM effect, it has a risk of damaging infrastructure in
the quarter or settlement as a whole, based on the intensity of the effect.
There are two levels of the DAM effect, DAM_1 and DAM_2.
DAM_1: damage a single building in the quarter, possibly destroying it
entirely (i.e. the building's condition is Ruined).
DAM_2: damage multiple buildings in the quarter, possibly destroying them
entirely. On a high enough roll, subsequent rolls must be made in the other
quarters.

RIOT effect:
When an event has a RIOT effect, it has a risk of temporarily halting all
growth and building progress in the quarter or settlement as a whole, based
on the intensity of the effect. There are three levels of the RIOT effect,
RIOT_1, RIOT_2 and RIOT_3.
RIOT_1: growth and building progress are slowed to a fraction of usual speed.
RIOT_2: growth and building progress are halted (i.e. speed is 0) for the
quarter for some length of time.
RIOT_3: growth and building progress are halted (i.e. speed is 0) for the
entire settlement for some length of time.

GROW effect:
When an event has a GROW effect, it increases the growth rate of the quarter
or the entire settlement, based on the intensity of the effect. There are two
levels of the GROW effect, GROW_1 and GROW_2.
GROW_1: growth increases by some percentage for the quarter.
GROW_2: growth increases by some percentage for the entire settlement.

BLD effect:
When an event has a BLD effect, it increases the build speed of the quarter
or the entire settlement, based on the intensity of the effect. There are two
levels of the BLD effect, BLD_1 and BLD_2.
BLD_1: build speed increases by some percentage for the quarter.
BLD_2: build speed increases by some percentage for the entire settlement.

GOLD effect:
When an event has a GOLD effect, it increases the amount of gold earned by the
settlement per timestep, based on the intensity of the effect. There are two
levels of the GOLD effect, GOLD_1 and GOLD_2.
GOLD_1: a lump sum of gold is earned this one timestep.
GOLD_2: a lump sum of gold is earned with an additional percentage increase
for some length of time.

HERO effect:
When an event has a HERO effect, it generates a new notable residing in the
quarter. The notable's level is based on the intensity of the effect. There
are six levels of the HERO effect, HERO_MAGE, HERO_BARD, HERO_MERCH,
HERO_CRIME, HERO_RLG and HERO_WAR.
HERO_MAGE: the new notable is a mage or illusionist.
HERO_BARD: the new notable is a bard.
HERO_MERCH: the new notable is a merchant (any class). Can generate items.
Increases gold generated per timestep.
HERO_CRIME: the new notable is a thief or assassin.
HERO_RLG: the new notable is a cleric, paladin, monk or (rarely) druid.
HERO_WAR: the new notable is a fighter or (rarely) paladin.

ITEM effect:
When an event has an ITEM effect, it generates a new item residing in the
quarter. The item's power is based on the intensity of the effect. There are
three levels of the ITEM effect, ITEM_1, ITEM_2 and ITEM_3.
ITEM_1: the new item is a high-quality non-magical item.
ITEM_2: the new item is a low-quality magic item.
ITEM_3: the new item is a high-quality magic item.
