-------------------
NOTABLES IN SETTGEN
-------------------

Introduction:
Notables are the "interesting" people of a settlement: the adventurers, local
heroes, and powerful merchants. settgen monitors their actions over time,
reporting when a notable achieves success (adventuring or trading) and when a
notable grows ill or dies. Notables are mortal and their bonuses do not last
forever, but a good settlement will attract more notables.
Notables have a few special traits: they have a race, a class, a level in that
class, a chosen headquarters (a building in a particular district) and they
may also own some items (which have a chance of being given to the
headquarters when the notable dies). This can affect what activities they get
up to in town, and how effective a notable is at their activity.

New Settlements:
New settlements start with one random notable automatically promoted to the
GOVERNING activity (meaning that this notable will not ADVENTURE, TRADE or
discover TREASURE). Without at least one notable GOVERNING, a period of
ANARCHY occurs until a new notable is promoted.
New settlements will hence want to acquire a small roster of young notables
quickly, in order to mitigate harmful events and grow smoothly. Prioritizing
buildings that start notable-generating events (e.g. a SHRINE to get
REVELATION, or a MARKET to get MERCHANTS and OUTLAWS) is critical.

Generating Notables:
Notables can be acquired in two ways: building events like LECTURE or
SKIRMISH, or buy spending gold to INVITE TALENT. In the first case, an event
will have a variable chance of producing a notable who will make the building
their headquarters. In the second, a flat sum of gold can be paid to invite a
notable to join the settlement instantly. The more buildings there are in a
settlement, the more powerful the invited notable will be.

Notable bonuses:
The quarters and buildings in a settlement can have an effect on the notables
produced. New notables via events will be of the same race as the quarter they
appear in, and their starting level may be increased depending on the
buildings in the quarter. Additionally, new notables via events will also
receive bonuses based on the quarters found in the settlement: the more
ADMINISTRATIVE buildings there are in a settlement, the larger the GOVERNING
activity bonus; more RESIDENTIAL buildings reduces the risk of a notable
becoming SICK; and more INDUSTRIAL buildings increases the amount of gold a
TRADING or ADVENTURING notable can generate. Furthermore, existing notables
can gain these bonuses slowly over time once the buildings are built, thereby
ensuring that invited notables can becoming stronger as well.

Maximum Notables:
A settlement can never have more notables than 10% of its total population.
Once this threshold is reached, building events which generate notables will
not take effect, and it is not possible to INVITE TALENT.

Notable Activities:
There are several activities common to all notables, and some special
activites based on a notable's characteristics.

HEALTHY:
Healthy notables (the default state) assist the community in growing and
expanding. They provide a small bonus to growth and build speed each timestep,
based on their level. Healthy notables can be promoted to GOVERNING, or choose
to go ADVENTURING or TRADING (a special MERCHANT-only form of ADVENTURING).
- contribute to growth and build speed
- chance of SICK (grows with age) or ADVENTURING or DEAD

TRADING:
Trading notables provide contributions to growth and build speed, much the same
way as HEALTHY notables, but they also contribute gold each timestep. Only
MERCHANT notables can go trading, but doing so is much less dangerous than
ADVENTURING. Trading notables, like ADVENTURING ones, are not counted as "in
town" and hence are not affected by settlement events with KILL effects. They
will return to a HEALTHY state after a length of time based on their level
(higher-level notables can go trading for longer), and are still slightly
suscepitible to becoming SICK or DEAD.
- merchant only
- contribute to growth and build speed
- contribute gold
- chance of SICK (grows with age) or DEAD

GOVERNING:
Governing notables contribute more to growth and build speed than HEALTHY or
TRADING notables, but are incapable of going ADVENTURING or TRADING. When
disaster strikes, they are just as likely to die as the rest of the townsfolk.
Uniquely, notables must be deliberately promoted to governing: they will not
automatically do so, even if there are currently no governing notables in the
settlement. Without at least one governing notable, settlement growth and
building progress is slowed as though a RIOT event effect were ongoing.
Governing notables are susceptible to becoming SICK or DEAD, with a slightly
higher chance of the latter (governing is a stressful and dangerous job!)
- deliberate promotion
- contribute to growth and build speed (bonus over HEALTHY)
- chance of SICK (grows with age) or DEAD
(to consider: political removal or assassination?)

ADVENTURING:
Adventuring notables are not contributing to the settlement for the length of
their adventure. However, upon the completion of the adventure, they have a
chance of discovering TREASURE and awarding their home settlement with a
large quantity of GOLD. They may also acquire rare items (in the same fashion
as ITEM event effects) which are kept on their person or in their
headquarters. Lastly, if a notable successfully completes an adventure, they
will gain a level of experience. Adventuring is nonetheless far more
dangerous than the usual HEALTHY state, however, and adventuring notables
have a greater chance of becoming SICK or DEAD.
- away for some length of time (stop contributing)
- chance of TREASURE, SICK or DEAD

SICK:
Sick notables do not contribute to the settlement, but remain within it until
they are cured and HEALTHY or DEAD. A notable's class may also help avoid
sickness (e.g. paladins cannot become sick), but others run the risk of
becoming sick from any other activity. The chance of sickness also increases
with the age of the notable. If sickness continues for an extended period,
notables' chances of survival are progressively lowered.
- stop contributing
- chance of HEALTHY or DEAD

DEAD:
Dead notables are, obviously, not contributing to the settlement. Their
presence will be recorded in the settlement's history, but any items they
owned are lost or donated to their headquarters, and they can no longer revert
to any other state. If a notable dies while the only GOVERNING notable in a
settlement, settlement growth and building progress become slowed until a new
notable begins GOVERNING.
- remembered in history, any items acquired may be lost

TREASURE:
Treasure is a special "activity" where a notable generates a flat sum of gold,
and possibly a rare item, to be added to the settlement. It takes place on the
first timestep after a notable returns from ADVENTURING. The amount earned
depends on the notable's level. After the treasure activity occurs, notables
return to being HEALTHY.
- contribute flat gold and/or an item
- revert to HEALTHY

