---------------------
QUARTERS IN SETTGEN
---------------------

Introduction:
Every settlement is composed of multiple quarters (not necessarily four).
These represent the administrative divisions of the settlement as were manifest
in late medieval towns and cities of Europe and elsewhere. Quarters tend to
coincide with neighbourhoods and split along ethnic, religious or economic
lines (e.g. the Mughrabi Quarter in Jerusalem, Jodenbreestraat in Amsterdam or
Shoreditch in London).
As a settlement grows, its citizens spill out of its first quarter and into
new quarters. The new quarter may be similar to the first, or it may be made
up of other races or professions. It contains buildings of its own, and, for
the most part, events in the new quarter will not affect the others.

New quarters:
A new settlement begins with a single quarter and no buildings. The type of
the quarter will also affect the settlement's starting population, gold and
first governor's class. The starting gold will be enough to start construction
on a basic building in the district (although it could also be spent to INVITE
TALENT to the settlement).
New quarters are automatically built as the settlement grows, based on a
logistic regression: a random number is generated against the regression
probability P(Y=1|X_1,...,X_k) to check each step if a new quarter is built.
The y-intercept alpha (or beta_0) is proportional to the total population of
the settlement. The regression coefficients represent the desirable
infrastructure in the settlement: as more infrastructure is constructed, the
higher the probability of a new quarter.
Sample coefficients are as follows:
- beta_1 = 0.001; X_1 = # of residential buildings
- beta_2 = 0.001; X_2 = # of industrial buildings
- beta_3 = 0.002; X_3 = # of port buildings
- beta_4 = 0.002; X_4 = # of academic buildings
- beta_5 = 0.002; X_5 = # of administrative buildings
- beta_6 = 0.01; X_6 = age of settlement

New buildings:
Settlements have a single pool of gold to spread across quarters. This is most
useful for purchasing new buildings for the quarter. Once enough money is
accumulated and any prerequisite buildings are complete, the gold can be spent
to start a new building in the quarter. The building begins at 0% progress and
increases some percent each timestep, unless a RIOT event effect has halted it.
In this stage, the building can still be affected by DAM event effects, which
reset progress back to 0%.
Once a building is completed, its events are "active" and may trigger on
subsequent timesteps.

Quarter types:
There are five types of quarters. Each quarter also has a dominant race, which
is unrelated to the quarter's type and purely for cosmetic purposes (although
notables of certain races may be better at different tasks: see notables.txt
for more information).

RESIDENTIAL quarters:
Residential quarters are the most common type of quarter. Filled mostly with
houses, residential areas also tend to host religious edifices and some
artistic buildings (the THEATRE and MUSEUM). Residential quarters grow the
fastest of all quarters, and their associated buildings have the most GROW
event effects. Notables based in residential quarters tend to be clerics,
druids, paladins, monks or bards.

INDUSTRIAL quarters:
Industrial quarters are the second most common quarters. They are the homes of
artisans and craftspeople who produce many of the goods enjoyed and exported
by the settlement, and they contain a mixture of shops and workhouses.
Industrial quarters increase a settlement's gold and speed up its building
progress better than any other quarter (although PORT districts provide
similar benefits). Notables based in industrial quarters tend to be
merchants, thieves and assassins.

PORT quarters:
Port quarters are quarters exclusive to coastal settlements, where mariners
arrive with goods and valuables from around the world. They provide many of
the same benefits as industrial quarters, but carry a risk of exposing the
settlement to plague. Port quarters provide a wider variety of notables than
other quarters: notables in port quarters can be merchants, clerics, druids,
paladins, monks, fighters, rangers, thieves or assassins.

ACADEMIC quarters:
Academic quarters produce valuable goods and notables at campuses devoted to
science and magical education. Compared to other quarters, the buildings of
the academic quarter are considerably more expensive, but confer a few
extremely valuable events in return. Like the INDUSTRIAL quarters, academic
quarters also produce their fair share of valuable items and can speed up
building progress. Notables based in academic quarters tend to be mages and
illusionists.

ADMINISTRATIVE quarters:
Administrative quarters are the seat of the settlement's government. They are
filled with civic and military buildings to protect and train the people. They
do not provide many benefits to growth, gold or building speed, but instead help
mitigate common negative event effects. The number of administrative buildings
in a settlement is counted against any RIOT event effects, allowing
settlements to grow and build efficiently, and they also provide GOVERNING
bonuses. Notables based in administrative districts tend to be fighters or
rangers.
